# Learning from Constraints

Marco Gori, University of Sienna, Italy

For more information and software:

* https://sites.google.com/site/semanticbasedregularization/
* https://sites.google.com/site/semanticbasedregularization/home/seminars-at-unisi

The video of the session is [here](https://youtu.be/Kvf6C3kjEkc).

## Résumé

In this talk, I propose a functional framework to understand the
emergence of intelligence in agents exposed to examples and knowledge
granules. The theory is based on the abstract notion of constraint,
which provides a representation of knowledge granules gained from the
interaction with the environment. I give some representation theorems
that extend the classic framework of kernel machines in such a way to
incorporate logic formalisms, like first-order logic. This is made
possible by the unification of continuous and discrete computational
mechanisms in the same functional framework, so as any stimulus, like
supervised examples and logic predicates, is translated into a
constraint. The prescribed structure, which comes out from constrained
variational calculus, is guided by a sort of parsimonious match of the
constraints, and it is shown that only support constraints are
involved, which nicely generalize the notion of support vectors in
SVM. Finally, I present some experimental results that also include
the verification of new constraints.

## Bio

Marco Gori, University of Siena

Marco Gori received the Ph.D. degree in 1990 from Università di
Bologna, Italy, working partly at the School of Computer Science
(McGill University, Montreal). In 1992, he became an Associate
Professor of Computer Science at Università di Firenze and, in
November 1995, he joint the Università di Siena, where he is currently
full professor of computer science.

His main interests are in machine learning with applications to
pattern recognition, Web mining, and game playing. He is especially
interested in bridging logic and learning Marco Gori received the
Ph.D. degree in 1990 from Università di Bologna, Italy, and in the
connections between symbolic and sub-symbolic representation of
working partly at the School of Computer Science (McGill University,
Montreal). In information. He was the leader of the WebCrow project
for automatic solving of 1992, he became an Associate Professor of
Computer Science at Università di Firenze crosswords, that
outperformed human competitors in an official competition which and,
in November 1995, he joint the Universitá di Siena, where he is
currently full took place during the ECAI-06 conference. As a follow
up of this grand challenge he founded QuestIt, a spin-off company of
the University of Siena, working in the field of
question-answering. He is co-author of the book "Web Dragons: Inside
the myths of His main interests are in machine learning with
applications to pattern recognition, search engines technologies,"
Morgan Kauffman (Elsevier), 2006.

Web mining, and game playing. He is especially interested in bridging
logic and learning and in the connections between symbolic and
sub-symbolic representation of Dr. Gori serves (has served) as an
Associate Editor of a number of technical journals information. He is
the leader of the WebCrow project for automatic solving of crosswords,
that outperformed human competitors in an official competition which
related to his areas of expertise, he has been the recipient of best
paper awards, and took place within the ECAI-06 conference. As a
follow up of this grand challenge, he keynote speakers in a number of
international conferences. He was the Chairman of the founded QuestIt,
a spin-off company of the University of Siena, working in the field
Italian Chapter of the IEEE Computational Intelligence Society, and
the President of the of question-answering. He is co-author of the
book “Web Dragons: Inside the myths Italian Association for Artificial
Intelligence. of search engines technologies,” Morgan Kauffman
(Elsevier), 2006. He is a fellow of the IEEE, ECCAI, IAPR. He is in
the list of top Italian scientists kept by the VIA-Academy
(http://www.topitalianscientists.org/top_italian_scientists.aspx)

## Additional reading

[http://www.meetup.com/Nantes-Machine-Learning-Meetup/files/](http://www.meetup.com/Nantes-Machine-Learning-Meetup/files/)
